README.md, before:

# TAS (Trusted Artifact Signer) Monitoring  

Enterprise-grade monitoring solution for Red Hat Trusted Artifact Signer (RHTAS) using Grafana and Prometheus.  

## Prerequisites  

Before deploying, ensure you have:  

1. **OpenShift Cluster Access**: You must be logged into an OpenShift cluster  
```bash  
oc whoami  
```  
2. RHTAS Operator: Red Hat Trusted Artifact Signer operator must be installed  
3. Grafana Operator: Grafana operator must be installed in the cluster  
4. OIDC Configuration: OIDC must be configured and ready  
5. Securesign Deployment with Monitoring: The following components must be deployed with monitoring enabled:  
- Fulcio  
- CTLog  
- Rekor  
- Trillian  
- TSA  

## Quick Start  

1. Clone this repository:  
```bash  
git clone https://github.com/kdacosta0/tas-monitoring-stack.git  
cd tas-monitoring-stack  
```  

2. Deploy the monitoring stack:  
```bash  
./deploy.sh  
```  

3. Access Grafana:  

The script will output the Grafana URL  
Default credentials: `admin / admin`  


## Architecture  

This monitoring solution tracks the following KPIs:  

**Throughput Metrics**  
- `fulcio_new_certs` - Certificate issuance rate (fulcio-server)  
- `rekor_new_entries` - Transparency log entries (rekor-server)  
- `entries_added` - Log signer activity (trillian-logsigner)  
- `log_rpc_requests` - Log server requests (trillian-logserver)  
- `http_reqs` - Certificate transparency requests (ctlog)  
- `timestamp_authority_http_requests_total` - Timestamp requests (tsa-server)  

**Resource Metrics**  
- CPU Usage: `process_cpu_seconds_total`  
- Memory Usage: `go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes`

Commit message:

feat: refine check-prerequisites.sh, add support for custom namespace, add makefile, refactor doc

README.md, after:

# TAS (Trusted Artifact Signer) Monitoring  

Monitoring solution for Red Hat Trusted Artifact Signer (RHTAS) using Grafana and Prometheus.  

## Prerequisites  

Before deploying, ensure you have:  

1. **OpenShift Cluster Access**: You must be logged into an OpenShift cluster  
```bash  
oc whoami  
```  
2. **RHTAS Operator**: Red Hat Trusted Artifact Signer operator must be installed  
3. **Grafana Operator**: Grafana operator must be installed in the cluster  
4. **OIDC Configuration**: OIDC must be configured and ready  
5. **Securesign Deployment with Monitoring**: The following components must be deployed with monitoring enabled:  
  - CTLog  
  - Fulcio  
  - Rekor  
  - Trillian  
  - TSA  

## Quick Start  

```bash  
git clone https://github.com/kdacosta0/tas-monitoring-stack.git  
cd tas-monitoring-stack  
make deploy  
```  
This will deploy grafana to default namespace - `trusted-artifact-signer`.  

**Deploy to custom namespace:**:  
```bash  
make deploy NAMESPACE=my-tas-namespace  
```  

**Cleanup**:
```bash  
make clean  
```  

This will output the Grafana URL  
Default credentials: `admin / admin`  


## Architecture  

This monitoring solution tracks the following KPIs:  

**Throughput Metrics**  
- `fulcio_new_certs` - Certificate issuance rate (fulcio-server)  
- `rekor_new_entries` - Transparency log entries (rekor-server)  
- `entries_added` - Log signer activity (trillian-logsigner)  
- `log_rpc_requests` - Log server requests (trillian-logserver)  
- `http_reqs` - Certificate transparency requests (ctlog)  
- `timestamp_authority_http_requests_total` - Timestamp requests (tsa-server)  

**Resource Metrics**  
- CPU Usage: `process_cpu_seconds_total`  
- Memory Usage: `go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes`
